- Today I'm gonna talk
about a very hot topic.
Is Micro Four-Thirds dead or not?
(soothing synth music)
Hi, there.
I'm Peter Forsgard, an Olympus visionary
from Helsinki, Finland.
And, that's my disclaimer.
When I talk about Micro
Four-Thirds and Olympus cameras,
you have to remember that
I am an Olympus visionary.
So, I have a very positive view
on Olympus cameras, of course.
But then, also you have to
remember that I've been shooting
with Olympus cameras for four years
and been only two years a visionary;
so, I picked Olympus
before they picked me.
And please, continue to
subscribe to my channel,
and hit that bell so you get noticed
when there is new video online.
I post videos from every
Tuesday and every Friday.
My channel is all about you
getting to be a better photographer.
This video was not endorsed by Olympus
or neither did they say that
I had to make this video.
I wanted to make this video
because I think it's an
interesting matter to discuss.
Tony Northrop made a video,
or actually it was a podcast,
but it was also a video on YouTube.
And the topic was, Micro
Four-Thirds Is Dead.
And then Joseph Ellis, a wedding
and portrait photographer,
from Dallas, Texas, who
is an Olympus image-maker
said in his video, some
comments about the video.
And I'm commenting actually
both of those videos.
And I think it's very good for
me, also, to address on those
because I know I have a lot of subscribers
that are Olympus users and
Micro Four-Thirds users, also.
So I think it's a very
important topic in my channel
to little bit discuss the
future of Micro Four-Thirds.
The whole thing actually
started when Panasonic announced
that they are going full-frame.
They also said that Micro Four-Thirds
is going to be in their line-up.
And Tony Northrop said in his video
that Panasonic will drop Micro
Four-Thirds in a few years.
And he had a very good reason to say so.
He says that the Panasonic S1
fullframe line-up is totally new.
So, they have to put
a lot of R and D money
into that system, which makes sense.
And then, they also have
to have some R and D
in the Micro Four-Third's world.
So, to keep making better
Micro Four-Third cameras,
they need to R and D theirs, also.
So, they have to split
the cost of R and D.
And he explains, of
course, the cost of R and D
has to come back in sales.
And if, let's say, that Micro
Four-Thirds is not selling
why would they invest
money on R and D on things
that doesn't sell?
But, then I wanna ask a question.
Why does he assume that
the fullframe is the one
that will survive in Panasonic?
That is, I think that's
a reasonable question.
There are no really good lenses;
or actually there are very
good lenses, but not too many,
and very expensive like a lens is.
And of course what makes it
easier for Panasonic is the fact
that Sigma and Leica are with them
in the new L mount system cameras
that are going to be on
the market for Panasonic.
And also Sigma has said
that they might be making
a fullframe camera.
But then my question is who
is going to invest in a system
that does not have too many lenses, yet?
There are a lot of
people that have Canons,
they have Nikons, and
they have Sony cameras.
Most likely, if you have
a Canon or Nikon DSLR
if you still want to stay in fullframe,
you're going to pick up
the DSLR or the Nikon ZET series cameras.
I don't think there's gonna be a massive
movement to Panasonic.
So, I think Panasonic, with the fullframe,
that's the bigger risk,
just because they don't
have that many lenses, yet.
And who says that DS-1 or DS1R cameras
are going to be really good?
Most likely they are.
But, we don't know because the
camera does not exist, yet.
But, it's going to take a
lot of money for Panasonic,
when they invest in the new system.
And, if it does not start
selling, they might ditch that.
Who knows?
There was talk about smartphones.
And that's one reason that compact cameras
is, kinda like, non-existing any more.
Of course, there are some
specialty compact cameras,
like super zoom cameras.
And then there are these top series
where they have this
water-proof, splash-proof,
and you can throw-them-around
kind of cameras,
which are really good.
And, that's, of course,
those things are gonna change
because the mobile phone
is not an action camera.
But my prediction about smartphones
is that they are going to kill
the entry-level system cameras.
And it's gonna affect the DSLR market
and the minerals market because of the new
computational imaging
that most new phones have.
What's the biggest reason
for people taking photographs these days?
Sharing it in social-media.
And which device would you
use if you want to share
all the time your images to social media?
Well, the smartphone, of course.
And Joseph Ellis in his video
said that he does not believe
that it's going to affect that
much the entry-level cameras,
because people still need long lenses
when they want to make images
of their kids doing sports.
Yeah, there is a point.
But, I do not think that
there are so many people
that want to buy a DSLR,
because they wanna make images
of their kids playing sports.
That would make some camera
manufacturer so profitable
just on that niche.
I don't think so.
And then there's the third thing
that was in Tony Northrop's podcast/video.
He had an example of a 600
millimeter Nikon lens that was F4
and then the Olympus
M.Zuiko 300 F4 pro lens.
And he said that, of course,
the size of the 600 millimeter
F4 lens for fullframe
is huge, compared to the
300 millimeter F4 lens.
And, if you compare the lenses
and you compare the price of the lenses,
the Nikon lens costs about, as Tony said,
and I haven't checked it out on-line
but, I believe what
Tony says, it's $13,000.
And you can get the Olympus
300 F4 and M.Zuiko lens
for, let's say, it's less than 3,000.
I think it's 2,700 now.
Around that, anyways.
But it's a lot lot less.
You can get three of those
in price of one of the Nikon lenses.
And, I believe when Tony said
that the image quality is
better with the fullframe
and with the 600 millimeter F4 Nikon lens,
I don't doubt that.
I believe that.
But, is it so much better that you justify
the huge amount of money.
Let's say there's a about
a $10,000 difference.
Are your pictures gonna
sell so much higher price
if you shoot with the Nikon
or the Olympus system?
I don't believe so.
As he said about the R and D things,
that you have to justify
the R and D costs,
and you have to sell cameras
to make up the R and D costs.
And exactly the same thing
when you're doing photographic business.
if you're selling bird photographs,
are your pictures so much better?
Is the client going to
pay so much more money?
that you can justify
the $10,000 difference?
And when we can consider that the 300 F4
has a image stabilizer,
and with the E-M1 Mark II
you have six stops of stabilizing
versus the Nikon's,
which is a little less.
To be honest, I don't know what it is,
but I know it's not six stops anyways.
And then there is the talk
about the depth of field.
Always on these questions
about depth of field
you assume that you
want your depth of field
to be as narrow as possible.
But, what if you need
more depth of field?
With the F4 600 millimeters,
you have a subject
that's 10 meters away.
Your depth of field is
about seven centimeters.
With the 300 millimeter F4,
and a MIRRORLESS Micro Four-Thirds body,
the depth of field in 10 meters
is around 14 centimeters.
So, it's about a double,
which makes sense.
In this case,
is the seven centimeters
worth that 10,000 bucks?
I know that this is just a small example
and just a small niche example,
but, so is Tony's example
of 600 millimeter, anyways.
So that's why I'm addressing exactly that.
What if you need some more
depth of field with your fullframe camera?
You have, to get that 14
centimeters at the same situation,
you have your subject at 10 meters
and you have the 600 millimeter F4,
you have to stop it down to
F8 to get 13 centimeters.
And there you lose two stops of light.
So, you have to either
get a longer shutter speed
or boost up the ISO.
And if you boost up the
ISO, in Tony's word,
you have the same image quality, anyways.
But, look at the price.
You get the same quality
with $5,000 to $6,000
versus $16,000 when you have the body,
because you need the body, also.
So, it's not that simple.
And to me, as I said in the beginning,
I've done my images for four years
with Micro Four-Thirds camera,
with an Olympus camera,
and not once has someone asked me
what camera do I use?
Or paid me less because
I have a smaller camera
or a smaller sensor.
No, never.
And that's what I'm saying.
That is the image quality so much better
that you justify the higher price?
And then when it comes
to the size of the lenses
like Tony said in his video
that like now I am filming
this with 25 millimeter F1.2,
which is equivalent in the
sense of depth of field
and the field of view is a 50 millimeter
2.4 in a fullframe,
Which some consider not so fast a lens.
But, if there is a 50 millimeter
2.4 lens for fullframe
would it be as good as this lens
that I'm using now,
25 millimeter F1.2?
And would it be weather-sealed?
And would it be dust-proof?
I doubt that.
I don't think it will,
because that would be a
low-end lens for fullframe.
There will be one point
four, one point two lenses
that are pro-grade
like my Olympus 25
millimeter F1.4 lens is.
So, it's not equivalent.
It is smaller
because of the pro-grade
that I have in my lens.
The same size for fullframe
would not be a pro lens.
So, you would lose image quality.
So it's not the same thing.
And because the F stop is 1.2 and 2.4,
I have a different exposure,
faster shutter speeds, lower ISO.
You can boost up the ISO,
of course, on the fullframe.
But then, of course, you get more noise
off of the fullframe and
you lose some image quality.
So the gap gets smaller.
I don't think that Micro
Four-Third is going to die.
But, of course, if Olympus
is going to be the only one
who's making Micro Four-Third
cameras, is going to survive,
it needs, of course,
to do a lot of R and D.
What they have so far,
they got very, very unique
and good features in their cameras.
One is that they have the live composite,
which is very unique.
ProCapture, which is 60 frames per second.
So what they really need
to keep up their R and D
and make great cameras and great lenses.
And that's the way they will survive.
Because, at least so far,
there has been quite a lot
of professional photographers
who has come from the
fullframe to Micro Four-Thirds.
Also, I'm guessing, but
I know Olympus, anyways.
And if that thing keeps on going,
and I don't see any reasons why not,
then there's no problem
with the Micro Four-Thirds.
But, as I said,
they need to keep their R
and D really high-quality
and make really great cameras.
But, as Tony said, and as I am saying,
and probably Joseph agrees with me, too
that we do not know what
happens in 10 years.
10 years ago, Nokia from Finland
was a powerhouse making mobile phones.
Then came Apple, and
what happened to Nokia?
They doing something,
they still doing great,
but they doing something else.
There aren't very many
Nokia phones around anymore.
So, we never know which ones will survive.
But hey, this was my
two cents on this matter
and thanks for watching.
Bye, for now.
(soothing synth music)